if you are using a Windows PC chances
are you using a lot of unoptimized and
Wrong settings so in this guide we will
be optimizing Windows performance for
gaming and reducing input delay without
downloading a single thing and just by
using the settings within the windows
itself this will work for both windows
11 and 10 as well as any lowend mid or
high-end PC and you can also expect a
boost in fps and a much smoother Windows
Experience at the end of the video so
let's get into it the first thing that
you want to do is open up the start menu
and search for device manager go ahead
and open it up and once it opens up
click on the system devices and expand
it down inside of here there are a
number of devices that I want you to
disable the first one is the composite
bus animator so just right click on it
and click on disable device in my case I
have already disabled it so it's going
to show me the enable option the second
one is the high Precision event timer
once again right click and disable
device the third is the numeric data
processor once again do the same thing
to disable it and the fourth one is the
SMB SCE controller now the disable
devices will have a downward pointing
Arrow which you can see right right here
once you have disabled all of these
devices what I want you to do is click
on the network adapters and expand it
down then right click on your network
connection hit properties and click on
power management make sure that all of
these are unchecked and hit okay once
you're done with that click on view and
click on devices by connection now
inside of here I want you to find the
USB host controller that has your mouse
and keyboard attached to it so in my
case I have two but my mouse and
keyboard are attached to the first one
so if I just expand this down as you can
see here is my Mouse and here is my
keyboard as for the second one it only
has some generic USB hubs so I'm going
to close that one down and then click on
the generic USB hub inside of here that
has my mouse and keyboard attached to it
then right click on it click on
properties go into the power management
and make sure that allow the computer to
turn off this device to save power is
unchecked hit okay then right click on
the mouse click properties and do the
same thing for the power management just
make sure that the first one is
unchecked and then do the same thing for
the keyboard right click properties
power management the first one one is
unchecked hit okay now you can close out
of the device manager as we done inside
of here moving on open up your start
menu once again and type in Ms config go
ahead and open it up and inside of the
system configuration go into the boot
tab then click on Advanced options make
sure that the number of processor is
checked and set it to the highest
available for you in my case I only have
four but you may have more or less
depending on your CPU then click on okay
and then go into the services now inside
of here make sure that hide all
Microsoft Services is checked and then
go ahead and uncheck any of the services
that you don't want to start off with
your windows in my case I have unchecked
all of the Adobe Brave Google Chrome and
PC manager services and anything related
to my graphics card and windows is
checked inside of here just make sure
that those are not unchecked then click
on the startup and open up the task
manager inside of here do the same thing
go through this whole list and make sure
that any process that you don't want to
start up with your windows is disabled
and in order to do that all you need to
do is just right click on it and then
click on disable since I have already
disabled it it's going to show me the
enable option so I'm going to go ahead
and close out of this since I have
already disabled all of the useless
programs inside of here once you done
hit apply hit okay it's going to ask you
whether you want to restart just click
on exit without restart as we will be
restarting our PC later on anyways after
that open up the start menu once again
and this time type in the keyboard go
ahead and open up the keyboard inside of
the control panel and once this opens up
just make sure that the repeat delay and
the repeat rate are both set to short
and FAL so that is to the far right hit
apply hit okay open up the start menu
once again and this time type in the
mouse go ahead and open up the mouse
settings and then go ahead and click on
additional Mouse settings once this
opens up click on the mouse pointer
options and then make sure that this
pointer is set to the sixth dot right
here and also make sure that enable
pointer Precision is unchecked as it is
going to disable Mouse acceleration
giving you a much smoother and lower
input delay when using your mouse hit
apply hit okay and now we can move on to
the advanced system settings so once
again open up just start menu and type
in the advanced system settings go ahead
and open it up and inside of here under
the advanced under performance click on
settings and by default it will be set
to let Windows choose what's best for my
computer all you need to do is click on
adjust for best performance and then
make sure that four of these are checked
that is show Shadows under Windows show
thumbnails instead of icons smooth edges
of screen font and use drop Shadows for
Icon labels on desktop once that is done
click on Advanced and make sure that
adjust for best performance off is set
to programs hit apply hit okay and hit
okay once again now at this point you
may want to create to system restore
point as we are going to be changing a
lot of the Windows settings which you
may or may not like the reason we did
not create a restore point beforehe had
was all of those tweaks can be manually
reverted by just enabling or disabling
stuff and simply following along with
the video so in order to create a
restore point once again you need to go
to your start menu and type in a restore
then click on the create a restore point
and once inside of here click on the
drive that you have your windows on
click on configure down on system
protection and set the max usage to
around 5% hit okay then click on Create
and you can go ahead and name it
anything I'm going to go ahead and name
it the restore point then click on
create now that the restore point has
been created click on close hit okay and
open up the start menu to go into these
settings for the people who are using
Windows 10 the layout may be different
but the settings remain mostly the same
so going into the display just make sure
that the scale is set to 100% because
for some reason if you set it to
anything other than that Windows causes
a slight increase in the input delay
going back into the system open up the
notifications and make sure that they
are turned off going back into the
system once again and inside of here go
into the storage click on the storage
sense and turn it on set the Run storage
sense to every month and this is going
to make sure that once a month it goes
up and cleans up all of the temporary
and useless files that are no longer
required by the windows consider it as
an automatic storage management system
in which it automatically cleans up all
of the temporary files without you
having to do anything also make sure
that delete the files in my download
folders is set to never otherwise it
will automatically delete those as well
going back into the system scroll down
until you can find the remote desktop
and once again make sure that this is
turned off going back into the system
one last time and open up the clipboard
make sure that the clipboard history is
turned off clear the clipboard data and
suggested actions should be turned off
as well once you done with everything
inside of the system click on the
personalization now inside of here go
into the taskbar and make sure that you
copy these settings so turn off all of
these and make sure to hide the search
icon because you can always go ahead and
just open up your start menu and start
typing to search anything anyways going
into the apps just go ahead and click on
the installed apps and inside of here
just go through this whole list and make
sure that you uninstall anything that
you don't need because the Less storage
that you have on your drives the slower
your windows will perform and overall
you may experience a decrease in its
snappiness also open up your start menu
and make sure that any of these apps
that come pre-installed with Windows 11
are also uninstalled unless of course
you want to use them but for me I'm
going to go ahead and go through all of
these and click on uninstall to
uninstall them now that you're done
inside of here click on accounts and
inside here is one of the most important
settings that I want you to do is log
out of your Microsoft account you can go
into the signin options and inside of it
you will have an option to log in with
your local account but since I have
already done it I don't have the option
but go ahead and log out of your
Microsoft account this will not only
protect your privacy but it will also
decrease the number of telemetry
services that keep running in the
background while using a Microsoft
account so go ahead and sign into your
local account and then go onto the
gaming inside of here make sure that the
Xbox game bar is turned off going back
click on captures and make sure that
these are also turned off and then going
into the game mode go ahead and turn it
on it may give you a slight boost in fps
in all of the games that you may play
then click on graphics and inside of
here click on the desktop app and then
click on browse you can go ahead and add
the executable file for your favorite
game inside of here so for me I'm going
to go ahead and open up the genan impact
just right click on it shortcut and open
up the file location then once the
launcher. exz is selected I'm going to
go ahead and click on ADD and then click
on options and then just go ahead and
set it to hyper performance hit save
then clicking on the privacy and
security inside of here I'm going to go
ahead and open up Windows security and
then there is only one thing that I want
you to disable now I do recommend you go
ahead and disable the Windows Defender
as well but for those of you guys who
want to keep it there is only one thing
that I want you to disable and that is
to open up the Windows security then
click on device security and under core
isolation go ahead and open up the core
isolation details and turn off memory
Integrity it does prevent attacks from
malicious code to the processes however
it runs a lot of processes and uses up
system resources so that is the reason
we're going to be turning it off and
it's going to go ahead and give you a
slight increase in fps now you can close
out of this and go back into the privacy
and security inside of here under the
general go ahead and turn everything off
go back under the speech turn everything
off and then go ahead and do the same
thing for inking and typing diagnostic
activity history search permissions open
it up set it to strict make sure that
this is turned off also this search
history Device search history show
search highlights go ahead and turn this
off as well going back into the privacy
and security and then just go through
all of these app permissions and turn
them off as well moving on to the
Windows updates and inside of here just
go ahead and update your PC and then go
ahead and pause them for as long as you
can so they don't run while you are
gaming then click on the advanced
options and inside of here go ahead and
turn all of this off and then open up
the delivery optimizations now inside of
here click on the advanced settings and
make sure that the percentage one is
checked then check both of these and set
them to the lowest do the same thing for
the up load settings check both of these
set them to the lowest and we are done
with the Windows settings now you can
close out of them then moving on to the
power settings and in order to do that
open up your start menu once again and
then type in power plan go ahead and
click on edit power plan and then go
into the power options inside of here
just go ahead and click on Show
additional plans and check the high
performance then click on change plan
settings and make sure that this one is
set to never as well as this one then
click on change Advanced power settings
and once this opens up under the hard
disk just go ahead and expand it down
and make sure that the setting is set to
zero minutes so it's set to never then
moving on to the PCI Express just go
ahead and make sure that this setting is
set to off and then the processor prop
management just make sure that the
minimum State as well as the maximum
processor state are both set to 100%
then hit okay hit save changes and now
you have a custom high performance power
plant you can close out of this now that
all is done here check out this video if
you are tied of useless Windows services
that are reducing your windows and
gaming performance